Well, it's good to be together this morning, good to be with you with you and really of those of you watching online.
If you had the opportunity and the honor and the privilege that it is to sit in my seat, I'll tell you, you would be blown away by what God is doing in our church.
This past week, we launched Alpha and Alpha's environment for people who are new to faith, exploring faith, because we want to be the easiest church to invite your friends
And we've had so many people in Alpha in this session, we had to move them all to the big rooms.
So we were in this room and also in the auditorium there in a really 190 people participating in Alpha in this season, which is unbelievable.
Yeah.
And all kinds of high school students at a really a location we actually saw the most high school students we've ever seen wanting to jump into group there.
It's been amazing to see what God is doing.
And meeting so many of you who would say, hey, I'm on the front edge of discovering faith.
I'm asking questions.
I'm here to explore.
We really are here for you.
And the interesting thing to me is just the power of the local church.
And that's really what we're talking about in this series, that the local church is Jesus' movement, that we represent him on earth.
that the Bible talks about you and I as the body of Christ when we come together.
You might be a hand, I might be a foot, you might be the armpit, whatever it might be, but we all have a different role.
We all have a different part that we play, but together we represent Jesus.
And we talked the first week about, hey, what does it mean to actually reflect Jesus?
If we are the body of Christ, what does it mean to look like Jesus?
We should look like the Jesus who found us.
The first week we looked at the personality of Jesus.
And we looked at the fact that man, the church isn't just a club for the found, it's not that at all, it's a search party for the lost.
And then last week we looked at the posture of Jesus and the fact that there's no bottom to humility and there's no lid on love and that there's power when we choose to be humble.
Today we're gonna look at the power of Jesus and next week we're gonna look at the purpose
of Jesus.
The interesting thing to me about the local church is different than any other organization, any other institution, any other movement, any other gathering is the movement of the local church is supernatural.
That scripture says that there is something supernatural when the people of Jesus come together on mission together.
And in that is power.
There's the power of scripture, the Bible, the Word of God,
There's the power of the gospel, the truth of Jesus and who He is and how He changes us.
There's the power of how we come together in alignment, a group of people coming together saying, hey, we're gonna align around a mission, the gifts God's given us, we're gonna use them to point people to Him.
There's power in that.
But at the heart of the power of the local church is the power of the Holy Spirit.
And that's what I wanna talk a little bit about today.
If you're new to church,
You may have heard the term father, son, Holy Spirit.
We had a baptism day.
Somebody was baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
Because we believe that there is one God, three persons.
Father, God the Father, God the Son, that's Jesus, and the Holy Spirit.
And who is the Holy Spirit?
And how does the Holy Spirit work?
Well, the Holy Spirit, actually, when you read scripture, empowered Jesus when he walked this earth.
that when Jesus is baptized, you actually can see that the Holy Spirit is present there.
When Jesus is tempted in the desert, you can see that it's the Holy Spirit that is strengthening him and walking with him.
And Jesus died and rose again and then returned to heaven.
And he says, I left with those of you who choose to follow me, the Holy Spirit.
Just like I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, you can be filled with the Holy Spirit.
He actually says this just before he ascends to heaven.
He says this, but in fact, it is best for you
He says in the disciples, it's best for you that I go away, Jesus said.
Because if I don't, the advocate won't come.
Who is the advocate?
He's talking about the Holy Spirit.
Sometimes the word advocate is used.
Why is that?
Because the Holy Spirit advocates for Jesus in your life.
He says, if I do go away, then I'll send him to you.
And when he comes, the Holy Spirit, he's gonna convict the world of sin and of God's righteousness.
and of coming judgment.
Maybe you're here and you would say, hey, I wouldn't even call myself a Jesus follower, but I've definitely felt conviction before around sin, around brokenness.
I've definitely found conviction around the fact that, man, God is right and God is good and I need to be made right with him.
That's what the Holy Spirit does.
And he says, later on in the passage, Jesus says, there is so much more I wanna tell you, but you can't bear it right now.
But when the spirit of truth, the Holy Spirit comes,
He's gonna guide you in all truth.
He will not speak on his own, but he will tell you what he has heard.
And he will tell you about the future.
And this Holy Spirit, he will bring me glory by telling you whatever he receives from me.
Whatever the Holy Spirit receives from me, Jesus says, he's gonna tell you, he's gonna relay it to you.
He's gonna give it to you.
All that belongs to the Father's mind.
And this is why I said, the Spirit will tell you whatever he receives from me.
When Scripture talks about the Holy Spirit as an advocate, the Holy Spirit isn't an advocate for you.
He's an advocate for Jesus in you.
The Holy Spirit is an advocate for Jesus in your life.
He puts the spotlight of Jesus on your life.
He wants you to know what Jesus wants for you.
He wants you to know what Jesus would say to you.
And when we talk about being a church that every community needs, can you be a church without the power of the Holy Spirit?
Well,
I'll tell you, lots of things can gather a crowd.
You can build a church on a lot of things, a lot of gatherings.
You can get a crowd around politics.
You can get a crowd around being controversial.
You can get a crowd around saying all the things that you're against.
You can get a crowd around entertainment.
There are lots of ways to build a crowd, but it's the Holy Spirit that builds a church.
and scripture is very clear on that, the very beginning of the church is when the Holy Spirit arrives on the scene.
Jesus has returned to heaven, he just said, what I just shared with you in John 16, and he tells the disciples to wait for the power of the Holy Spirit, and they wait for 50 days, and they're all hanging out together in this room.
I'm sure they weren't in there the whole 50 days, because that wouldn't smell good.
I'm sure they went out and got some food and came back, but they're in this room,
It says, suddenly there was a sound from heaven, like the roaring of a mighty windstorm, and it filled the house where they were sitting.
And then what looked like flames or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them.
And everyone present was filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other languages as the Holy Spirit gave them this ability.
See this group of disciples, they all knew about Jesus.
They all seen him die.
They all saw him come back to life.
They believed he was the Son of God.
And they wanted to tell the world, but they didn't have the words to do it.
And it's the Holy Spirit that gave them the ability to speak different languages.
This is the birth of the early church that the church began because of the power of the Holy Spirit.
And you see the thing about the Holy Spirit that you see here is the Holy Spirit makes faith not just true, but real.
That for the disciples, it wasn't just something they'd seen.
And they said, well, we know it's true he died and we know it's true he rose again, but all of a sudden it's become so much more real to them.
And they start preaching and all these people, their lives are being changed and they're all choosing to follow Jesus with their lives.
And the beginning of the church movement,
begins to roll out, and we're here today because of what happened in Acts 2, the power of the Holy Spirit.
But here's the thing about the Holy Spirit.
Depending on your background, when I talk about the Holy Spirit, for some of you, it makes you uncomfortable.
Because maybe for you, you're like, this is exactly what I thought about Christians.
They're so weird.
talking about the Holy Spirit.
And then there are others of you who would say, man, I come from a church background and we talk more Father, Son, Holy Bible than we did Father, Son, Holy Spirit.
And this kind of makes me uncomfortable.
And that's the background I come from.
Or maybe you're here today and you're like, man, I love it.
Let's all talk about the Holy Spirit.
And my question for you is just make sure you're not super weird either.
I get that too.
But when it comes to the Holy Spirit, there's a part of some of us that struggles to kind of wrestle with who is the Holy Spirit?
And how does the Holy Spirit work?
And what would it mean if I leaned more into the Holy Spirit?
That kind of makes me nervous.
And part of that is because
When the Holy Spirit works in our lives, sometimes it means that we're not in control.
I want to share with you a journey that I've been on recently around this and it started five years ago.
Five years ago, I was in my basement and it was the heart of COVID, not my favorite time.
I was praying and I really felt God saying, I want Connects us to lean more into the person of the Holy Spirit.
And I said, okay, just so you know, God, this makes me uncomfortable, but I get it.
And so a number of things happened in our church that have happened over the last five years.
We've leaned more into the Holy Spirit.
You've probably noticed if you've been with us a long time that our services
have had some changes.
There are a lot of general sense of trying to create an accessible encounter for people who are new to faith and encounter with the Holy Spirit.
I've taught Beginner's Guide to the Holy Spirit, a series that came out of that, another series called Invisible God, and really leaning into that.
There's another part of the conversation that happened.
24 years ago,
I was part of a church that at a certain point, God did something really powerful where they set aside a week to lean into the presence of God.
And I said, God, are you saying we're supposed to do that at our church?
And because I said, I don't want to just take something that happened in some other church and try to force it on our church.
I didn't hear anything.
So I said, OK, God, if you want this, people in the church are going to have to come to me and tell me they want it.
If you want us to lean more into the presence of God and what the Holy Spirit wants to do in our lives, they're going to have to come to me.
I'm not going to force this on anybody.
That was five years ago.
And over the course of those five years, there was a moment where
Somebody came to me and said, hey, God told me, which is dangerous, by the way.
If someone comes to you and says, God told me, especially if they say, God told me you're supposed to marry me, be very, very careful of that.
And they said, there's a pastor who you know, and God told me that that pastor is supposed to pray for you.
And I was at a conference in the UK and here I see this pastor who's also Canadian standing at the front praying.
And I went up and I was like, I just know God's gonna say something I don't wanna hear.
And I was like, okay, you're supposed to pray for me.
And he prayed for me and he said, I think God's asking you the question, would you lead your church in a direction even if it was uncomfortable for you?
I was like two, three years ago.
In this past year, the staff prayed over me at a staff retreat spontaneously, and I was like, God, is this the moment?
Are we supposed to lean into God?
Is that what this is?
And it wasn't.
Five years have passed.
And I was up here at the front one day, on Sunday, and man, people were coming to the front.
and their lives were being changed.
And I was just like, oh, this is unbelievable.
God was appearing to somebody in a dream and people were begging for Bibles and I was like, I've never seen this.
And the person next to me says, have you heard this podcast and carrying you off the founder of this church recently
did a podcast where the church where God really showed up in a powerful way.
And I wasn't listening to it because I was afraid that would force me to do the thing from five years ago.
Like if I listen to this, God might tell me we have to do it.
So I'm not gonna listen.
And she said, have you listened to it?
I said, no, she said, if we would ever do something like that at this church, I would be all in.
And then I ran into someone else who has a similar background to mine on our staff team.
And they said, well, we ever do something like this at our church.
I'm like, I guess I have to listen to this podcast now.
And I had someone else and I listened to the podcast and it was so similar to what I'd experienced 24 years ago.
And I said to God, what do I do?
And I didn't hear anything.
And when I talk about hearing from God, I want you to know I'm not saying that because I'm super spiritual and you're not.
I'm just a regular person.
I got a house here in Barry.
I live the same life you live.
I didn't hear anything.
I was desperate to hear.
And so I decided on the Labor Day weekend that I would fast and pray until God spoke to me.
And on the Monday of Labor Day weekend, I was preparing the message on the prodigal son.
that I preached a couple of weeks ago.
And I was reading about the older son.
And if you were here and you heard that message, it broke me for you.
And I've been crying
over two weeks for you.
God wants to meet you.
And I'm crying everywhere.
And I'm fine, like.
I feel fine.
I'm the healthy.
I'm probably the healthiest I've been.
I feel great.
I don't cry all day long, but I cry about this.
I got to thinking about
Just you encountering Jesus.
I'm crying in front of 50 people in a restaurant.
And the reason for the tears, I don't like this.
It's because the Holy Spirit when He's speaking to me makes me cry so that I know that I'm not in control and to humble me because I hate it.
And so I went to the leadership team here and I went to the elders.
And I said, I think God's asking us to set aside a time at this church to seek the presence of God.
And that's all.
What is the Holy Spirit saying?
I think Jesus is saying that he has something to say to you.
Personally, I don't know what that is.
And I think that Jesus has something that he wants to say to us as a church.
And I said to the leadership team, hey, what would it mean to do this in January because the fall is so busy if we were to gather people together and seek the presence of God
and figure out what that even looks like.
I said, we're all so busy.
January is probably the best time.
And they said, no.
They said, if God wants to meet us, we want to do this as quickly as we can.
And so we've been praying.
We've been back gathering scripture from a number of people we trust in our church and praying around it and what it says and figuring out what this looks like.
And we've decided that from Tuesday, October the 21st to the 24th, we're going to host something, we're going to call it sacred homecoming for all the older brothers and all the younger brothers and everyone in between to come home and sit with God their father and has the Holy Spirit what Jesus wants to say to you.
And you're like,
What church is this?
We don't do this here.
I know.
And you're like, this makes me uncomfortable.
And I would say welcome to the club.
What is this going to look like?
We're shutting down all programming that week.
There will be no groups.
There will be no student ministry.
There will be no alpha.
There will be no anything.
This is highly inconvenient for us.
And I think that's on purpose.
That God wants to see if we would prioritize presence with Him.
We're going to have services every morning and every evening.
And what will they look like?
Well, we're still deciding some of that, but they will look different.
There'll be communion.
There'll be prayer.
There'll be silence.
There'll be an opportunity to be prayed for.
There'll be space for you to hear from God.
And what I want to ask you to do
What I want to challenge you to do is make arrangements to be there as often as you can.
We're going to have a 15 day reading plan to prepare us for that, to get your heart ready to meet with God.
And I would ask that you would come with an open heart.
And if I have ever earned chips with you, I'm cashing them all.
This will be much more presence over Polish.
It'll be about invitation, not manipulation.
And I pray that you would be open to what God might do in your life.
And to give you just a sneak peek of what we're hearing, because we've collected all this scripture from people that we're praying through.
There are themes of return, themes of repentance and themes of renewal.
I know they all start with our, I didn't do that.
And if you're like, wow, this feels inconvenient for my life.
I got to get babysitters.
We got to figure out who's going to be here when.
How am I going to get to some of this stuff I want to be there?
Or I don't really know if I want to do this, or that's a busy time for me at work.
I get it.
It's inconvenient.
I think God is asking, are you willing to do what it takes to seek God's presence and hear Jesus by the power of the Spirit?
would you be willing to do what it takes?
Because if we are going to be the church that this community needs, they can't just come here and find us.
They need to see God working in us.
They can't just be great music and a tidy Ted Talk.
They need to see God working in you.
And when I think of heading into this, I was praying about this.
I thought about Naaman.
You might not know the story of Naaman, but Naaman is a guy in the Old Testament.
He's a mighty warrior.
He's got all of this victory that God has given him, but he has leprosy.
And as good as things look for him on the outside, he's got this thing that he's dealing with.
I think that's so many of you.
Maybe even you volunteer here, you serve, you've got a good life, you're doing your best.
But on the inside, there's something about you that's still broken.
Like the older brother and the prodigal son, one is lost in his badness, the rebellious son, but the other is lost in his goodness, in his self-righteousness, in his achievement.
name and comes and he's broken even though he looks like he's got it all together on the inside and he shows up wanting to be healed by the prophet Elisha and he brings all of this money and clothes and all of this stuff to try to impress Elisha just like you and I bring all of all the good things I did God I'm trying to impress you and I'm trying to keep the score and I'm trying to
And it says, so Naaman went with his horses and his chariots and he waited at the door of the prophet Elisha's house.
But Elisha sent a message out to him with the message, go and wash yourself seven times in the Jordan River.
And then your skin will be restored and you will be healed of your skin disease or leprosy.
And you would think Naaman would say, I mean, if I said that to you, you would say what?
Of course, that's it.
I'm going to get healed of this disease just by going and taking a dip seven times.
Like what is the big deal?
But the Jordan River was in Israel, a river, not one from name and country.
And it was dirty and not crisp and clean like the one he was used to.
And the fact that Elisha wouldn't even come to the door.
And he said, I want to be healed, but I don't like the way this is happening.
It says, but Naaman became angry and stalked away.
He said, I thought, Alisha would certainly come out to meet me.
He said, I'd expected him to wave his hand over leprosy and call on the name of the Lord, our Lord has God and heal me.
That's how I wanted this to happen.
I want God to meet me on my terms, in my way, in the way that is comfortable for me.
And if that's you, like I could be that way sometimes,
I'm gonna tell you something that's hard to hear.
God's power comes on God's terms, not yours.
And you wanna meet God, and you wanna have a faith, and you want your faith to be real, but then it's not gonna be on your terms.
And then he says, aren't the rivers of Damascus, and the Abinah, and the far apart,
better than any of the rivers of Israel.
Why shouldn't I wash in those really nice, crisp, I mean, that looks neat and nice, God.
That looks easy, neat, nice.
Those rivers look real clean and easy.
Come to church on Sunday, do my group, volunteering, I'm ticking all the boxes, it's neat and easy.
Why shouldn't I be washing them?
Why can't I do it this way?
So name and turn away and win away in a rage.
I mean, so often you and I, you make God in your image and you want him to work in your life on your terms.
And that's not how the Holy Spirit works.
It's not gonna be on your terms.
It says, but his officers tried to reason with him and said, sir, if the prophet had told you to do something very difficult, wouldn't you have done it?
Wouldn't you have done it?
So you should certainly obey him when he simply says, go and wash and be cured.
Is this so easy?
Why wouldn't you just do this, Naaman?
Pride.
It's about pride.
The number one thing that stood between Naaman and the miracle he wanted was his pride.
And the number one thing that stands between you
and a faith that's really real is often your pride.
Because you want God on your terms, not on his.
It says, so naming, desperate enough for God to work in his life, went down to the Jordan River and dipped himself seven times as the man of God had instructed him.
Why seven times?
Why I think one of the reasons
Is it took that long for him to surrender his bride?
I can hear him already.
First time, I can't believe I'm doing this.
Second time, this river is so dirty.
I do not want this.
Third time, this is so uncomfortable.
Fourth time, this isn't even going to work.
Fifth time, God is never going to show up this way.
It's not till the seventh time.
God, if you have something for me, I'll take it on your terms.
What am I trying to get across to you today?
Jesus has something to say to you.
And Jesus has something to say to us.
And if I told you,
It was as simple as prioritizing this time.
Why wouldn't you do that?
And if you wouldn't, why is that?
Because he promises that by his spirit, if you seek his face, he will meet.
James 4, James right, draw near to God and he will draw near to you.
What does that mean?
God goes where he is wanted.
John Tyson theologian says that.
God goes to the places where he is wanted.
And would we be brave enough?
And guys, I'm talking to you.
Would you be brave enough?
set aside this week and to seek the face of God.
I see you come here and you go and you it's great.
I love it.
I don't want you to come here and have a good time.
I want you to come here and meet God.
That's the only way I put my head on my pillow at night.
presence over programs, presence over polish, coming with open hearts, ready to pray, ready for communion, ready for silence, ready to meet God.
These gatherings won't be perfect, but we're not gonna manipulate you, it's not gonna be weird, but we are gonna invite you to be open to what God would have for you.
Because people can't just come to our churches and find us
to find God actually real and working in us.
And that's between you and him.
So here's what I want you to do this week.
If you go to our website slash sacred homecoming, connect to church.com slash sacred homecoming.
There are homecoming.
There are all the details that we know so far.
And if you know me, you already know how uncomfortable that makes me, that we don't know every detail.
But we are praying and we're seeking what God would want.
And as we get clarity on this, we're adding more and more there.
Second of all, I would ask that you would pray and ask God how He would prepare you for this.
And some of us are using the Holy Here app to prayer walk neighborhoods.
If you haven't done that, I would encourage you to download that app and do it.
I want you to begin to make arrangements around that week, move your schedule, change what you need to do, book the babysitters you need, all of that kind of stuff.
Maybe you and your spouse are going to spell each other off.
And then watch early October, we're going to have those 15 days readings to prepare you for what God might.
because I really believe that Jesus has something he wants to say to you.
And I really believe that he has something that he wants to say to us.
If you're here today and it's your first day and you're like, this guy is intense.
That's partly true.
But I just appreciate we're on a journey and you get to join us on what I think
is a very special Sunday.
And so I just appreciate your grace in being here today.
And we really believe that God loves you and cares about you and wants to have a relationship with you.
And we would love to have you at our church on the journey.
If you're here today and you're like, yeah, I want all in, start praying about this.
If you are here and you are reluctant,
You are here and you are the guy I described two weeks ago with your arms crossed and your coffee cup during worship.
I'm praying for you like crazy.
You are the burden of my heart that you would know Jesus in a real way.
Because I want it.
Because He wants it.
He wants you to come in the house and sit with Him at the table.
Like the sun you are.
Let me pray for us.
God, we come to you and we just give this to you.
And we don't want to walk out a step with you.
We want to walk in step with you.
And I recognize that this is different for us.
I pray for those who are just processing all this and trying to figure out what it means and where it's headed.
And I pray that you would speak to them.
I pray for those who are excited about this, that you would speak to them, and I would pray for those in between that you would speak to them.
God, I'm trying to be obedient.
Because I'm trusting that you're gonna be faithful.
God, we pray that you with me.
we would be changed.
And we give all this to you in the hope and the dream that our cities would be reached by a church that looks so much like, you know, let me pray this near and